ADAM --- The Adaptive Dynamic Adjustment Method: a modern means of extending the life of the adjustment method in real estate valuation

The adjustment method is the most common method of real estate valuation in Russia. It has a number of disadvantages and is generally outdated by decades. However, its popularity has its reasons: simplicity, speed, cost-effectiveness, the possibility to legend any value required by the client, undemanding to the qualification of personnel --- these are the main reasons for its high popularity. However, the traditional reliance on correction factors derived from broad macro-level data does not allow for the nuances of local market conditions, which often leads to misrepresentation of value. The purpose of this paper is not to analyze the method itself and its shortcomings. Nor does it address the issue of the quality of adjustment data sources. Instead, it offers a set of practical tools to improve the quality of the valuation. This paper introduces the Adaptive Dynamic Adjustment Method (ADAM) --- a new tool that extends the traditional application of the adjustment method by integrating multiplicative regression models at multiple levels of data aggregation --- from global and national scales to local areas and sets of peers collected by the appraiser. The hierarchical structure allows us to obtain a joint distribution of the coefficients of multiplicative regression models (interpreted as elasticities) and to combine them using weighting methods that provide a compromise between the robustness of large data sets and the specificity required for localized estimates.  The paper describes the general theoretical basis of the method and proposes two implementation paths: a detailed customizable Python implementation and an optimized, simplified spreadsheet implementation designed for ease of use by practicing estimators. The code and spreadsheet are included with the paper. This approach allows estimators with different mental abilities and training levels to work with the material. If necessary, it is possible to skip the first sections of the material and go directly to the spreadsheet section. This allows for immediate practical application in real valuation scenarios. In general, we can say that the Adaptive Dynamic Adjustment Method overcomes the problem of disconnect between generalized macro data and local individual valuation by providing a flexible tool to improve the accuracy of real estate valuation in different market conditions. The proposed technology has been tested on the agricultural land market in a number of regions.

This repository comtain supporting code used while writing paper.
